---
layout: project
title:  "Mini-project 2"
---
### Introduction

This project is aimed to help you continue to improve your speed and proficiency with HTML/CSS skills as well as experiment with another specific genre of web design: a category and detail page from an e-commerce site, responsively designed for smartphone, tablet, and desktop.

Choose an existing online store that fits the following criteria:

* Includes products categorized in at least three levels: main categories will be on the primary navigation of your design; sub-categories and sub-sub-categories will form a sidebar. For example a suitable site might include main categories for apparel for men, women, and children. Sub-categories under "men" might include formal, casual, and accessories. Sub-sub-categories under "formal" might include suits, shirts, and pants; sub-sub-categories under accessories might include shoes, belts, ties, and socks.
* Product category page including at least 8 products and show an image, name and price for each product.
* Product detail pages include at least three images of the product: a main image that is large, and at least two other images that are shown in thumbnail form. You will not be required to make a functional
thumbnail viewer but just to mock up the idea.
* Product detail pages include several paragraphs and/or bulleted lists of features of the product.
* Product detail pages include reviews by at least three users. Each review must include a reviewer/user name, review date, icon or avatar image for the user, rating, and review content.

#### Requirements
* Use Sketch pages and artboards feature to design two pages each at three different layout sizes (total of 6 comps). See the provided wireframes for structural mockups for each page at three different sizes. Each Sketch "page" holds the comps for a different device size. Each "art board" inside the "page" holds a webpage comp for that size.  This allows us to sync a "page" in Sketch to a project in InVision where each art board becomes a screen from the site.
* Build two physical pages of the site at three different responsive sizes based on your comps: a sample category page and a sample product detail page.
* Final submission must include simple, semantic HTML and implement the CSS row-and-column theory covered in this class. A hoverable mobile menu is not required for this build out.

### Resources

Download the [Sketch wireframe starter](/docs/mp2-starter.sketch).

### Deliverable A: Design and Prototype

Follow these notes diligently to complete this deliverable.

1. Use the provided wireframes to create your two site pages at three sizes each. Your comps must follow these wireframes closely, varying only proportions, fonts, colors, imagery, and textures. Placement and the nature of the content should be identical.

    The provided wireframes use the following dimensions:

    * Phone: 300px* (2 x 150px columns with 20px side gutters)
    * Tablet: 600px* (6 x 100px columns with gutters to suit)    
    * Desktop: 1200px (12 x 100px columns with gutters to suit)

    *This is narrower than a standard devices (768px) for sake of a simpler grid. We'll ensure the media queries still occur at logical device sizes and that the layout centers inside the remaining space.

2. Be sure to use fonts from the Google Fonts API.

3. Create three project in InVision names as follows:

    * Web2 MP2 [Lastname] - Desktop
    * Web2 MP2 [Lastname] - Tablet
    * Web2 MP2 [Lastname] - Smartphone

    Use the corresponding settings for each device as you set up the project. This way you can synchronize each into InVision in a way that makes the prototype there authentic. 

4. Add your professor as a collaborator on each of your three projects. 

5. When you're finished with your comps in Sketch make a final sync to each project in InVision. Then use InVision's Build Mode to create hotspots that link your two pages together in each device size.

6. Submit the corresponding assignment in Moodle to indicate you're ready for review and feedback.

### Deliverable B: Markup

Create the simplest, semantic markup you need in order to begin to build out your design using HTML and CSS.

Follow this process:

1. Layout Analysis: Identify and label the rows and columns in your comp.
2. Open project link to MP2 in Codio provided in Moodle and in it create an `images` folder, `styles.css`, an `index.html` for the category page and `product.html` for the product detail page.
3. Export any images you need from your comp using Sketch's export features or the download option in InVision Inspect and place them in the `images` folder.
4. Content Markup: Analyze the structure of the content in your comp and create the corresponding simple HTML content in your HTML files.
5. Organizing/Layout Markup: Based on your layout analysis, add organizing markup around your content markup in order to ensure that you have rows and columns all accounted for. Be sure not to add any
markup unless its needed. Keep in mind that: 
    * a column or row that is already represented by a single HTML element does not need a new organizer around it.
    * rows and columns that use flex box must have a direct parent-child relationship.

Take a snapshot of your work with a caption that includes, "MP2-B".

### Deliverable C: Content Styles

Continue your build out of your design by adding styles to just the content elements on your page. You should have approximately 16 styles to account for from your comp including the following:

* normal paragraphs
* normal list items (bulleted or ordered)
* primary heading (brand)
* secondary headings
* third-level headings
* main categories in primary navigation
* sub-categories in sidebar navigation
* sub-sub-categories in sidebar navigation
* product name for category page
* product price for the category page
* breadcrumb/standard hyperlink styles
* quantity field label
* quantity input field
* add to cart button
* reviewer name
* review date

Place your styles in `styles.css` and be sure you're linking this into both HTML pages.

Be sure that you're also linking to any custom fonts in a valid way from within `styles.css`, such as by implementing the Google Fonts API. 

Also keep your selectors simple, being only as specific as necessary.

Build each responsive stop from mobile up to large desktop using progressively larger media queries and the `min-width` filter. Enter default styles for mobile. From there your stops should be `600px` (for large phones up to tablets), and `1200px` (for desktop and larger).

Take a snapshot of your work with a caption that includes, "MP2-C".

### Deliverable D: Layout Styles

Carrying forward with your build out, now add row and column settings in order to recreate the layout you've designed. Use your layout analysis from earlier as a guide and refer to the provided layout patterns for assistance. 

Take a snapshot of your work with a caption that includes, "MP2-D".

### Final Submission

Finish building out any elements that still need attention and make any revisions needed based on feedback.

Take a final snapshot of your work a caption that includes, "Final submission".
