---
layout: project
title:  "Mini-project 3"
---
### Overview

Imagine you want to start a blog for your own personal and professional writings. You'll need to design a homepage template and an article page template according to the specifications that follow.

#### Requirements

Your blog must...

* display some of your personality while also maintaining a professional, contemporary style; you determine your own "brand" constraints.
* design for a standard desktop device size of around 1200px wide. You may choose to work up to 1400px if you prefer. No responsive design is required in this project.
* accommodate a "medium rectangle" ad, which has a width of 300px and height of 250px.
* use a distinct grid system to tastefully unify the structure of the pages including considering both vertical and horizontal units.
* construct the design as a theme for WordPress.
* implement the site using WordPress and populate it with at least three articles containing actual readable content.

Your blog must include the following page templates designed as you see fit:

* **Home page** – this page will include a feed of recent articles and a short biography of you, the blog's author. 
* **Article page** – this page should feature the content of an article, which must include:
    * The title of the article
    * The date you published it
    * The lead paragraph
    * The body of the article
    * Optionally, but ideally, an image

***Both pages must include a placeholder for an ad***

See this [wireframe report](/docs/mp3-wireframe-report.pdf)

### Deliverable A: Page Design Drafts

Follow this process:

1. Create thumbnail sketches of your page templates on paper first to explore how the required components could fit together. 
2. Hone in on a direction from your thumbnails and consider the best overall grid to use given your various constraints as discussed in class. At this point you can move into Sketch and create a layout scratchboard on which you can experiment with typesetting. Solidify your vertical and horizontal units and set these up using Sketch's Grid and Layout settings.
3. Create a new Project in InVision in which you can build at least a desktop prototype for your site. Add the professor as a collaborator on this project.
4. Create comps for the two basic page layouts for your blog site using Sketch and the grid system approach/layout approach covered in class. Include actual text content and imagery as discussed in the requirements.
5. Synchronize your project with InVision and set up navigable hotspots to simulate the interaction between the homepage and an article page.

Submit the corresponding assignment in Moodle to indicate that your work is uploaded to InVision and ready for review.

### Deliverable B: Design Revisions and WordPress Setup

Make any design revisions based on feedback from your professor. Then prepare any slices for export. Sync with InVision and update your prototype hotspots there as needed.

Since WordPress will generate the content we need in or site, we don't have to build out our full site prototype. However, it will be helpful to have some sample structure from which we can pull as we move forward. 

Complete the following simple process:

1. In your custom theme folder you set up in class add a new subfolder called `static`.
2. In it create `index.html` and `single.html`.
3. In each, place the *plain HTML content* you might expect to use to form the basic structure of your site. You do not need to code detailed content, but just think through the overall structure of the page you think you'll need in order to pull of your layout. 

Later we'll transfer this markup into your main theme files in the root custom theme folder and add the appropriate WP tags to get the content out of WP we need. 

Take a snapshot of your work in Codio when you're finished and include the deliverable P3-B in the caption.  

### Deliverable C: WordPress Theme Setup and Content Styles 

Use the guide to be provided to set up your basic content styles and page templates using the WordPress Theme system.

Work to add a robust set of potential content styles using a dummy post in Wordpress. Consider each of the following in order to allow your future content editor flexibility inside your theme:

* `h2`, `h3`, `h4`, `h5`
* `p`, standard bulleted `li` and numbered `li`
* `block quote` for long quotations

### Deliverable D: Layout Styles and WordPress Customization

Take your work as far as possible in the WordPress theme by finishing building the layout CSS settings and further tweaking the page templates. Strive to recreate your comp as closely and simply as possible.

### Final Submission

Complete any additional work needed including populating all your articles in WordPress. 
