---
layout: project
title:  "Mini-project 4"
---
### Overview

In this project you will use WordPress to create a small informational site such as for a small business, corporation, or individual.

* You may redesign an existing site if you so choose. You may also create a site, but be wary of the load you take on in developing content for a new site.
* Steer away from an actual client due to the timeline and other restrictions.
* Do not choose a site with e-commerce as this will be the focus in the next project; stick to an informational site such as a corporate site, church or small business informational site, or special interest site.
* Include at least 4 pages of content including at least two layouts: Home page and Content page. Other layouts are welcome but not required. More pages are also welcomed by not required. 
* Ensure that the site is responsive with as many stops as necessary to ensure an intentional feel from desktop (maximum of 1440px) down to smartphone (minimum of 320px).
* Use WordPress Pages, Widgets and other features as you see fit in order to ensure the content is editable in WordPress.

### Deliverable A: Wireframe prototype and Style Tiles

Use Sketch to quickly assemble a loose, grey-box prototype of your website. Use actual content where possible. 

You must lay in content blocks for each page in this wireframe but only for sake of a) creating a fully interactive wireframe in InVision and b) to determine which page templates you do need to design in the next deliverable. 

You only need to comp one responsive size for this submission; consider making it a mobile size in order to practice a mobile first approach and prioritize content from a user-centered perspective.

Synchronize with an InVision project and ensure the professor is a collaborator in the project.

Use the InVision Boards feature to establish some type, color, and imagery ideas in lieu of a style tile submission. Ensure your professor has access to review and comment on this as well.

Submit the corresponding Moodle assignment to indicate you're ready for review.

### Deliverable B: Design Comps and Page Template Setup

Create design comps of each of the page templates you determined were necessary from your wireframes. Add these as new art boards in your same Sketch file so that you can easily get back to your wireframes and sync these designs to your InVision project.

Be certain to at least design a home page---which typically has a different and more engaging layout---and a content page. This should have placeholder content that allows you to envision:

* at least three levels of content headings;
* paragraphs;
* bulleted and numbered lists;
* and any other type elements you anticipate needing in the site based on a survey of your wireframes.

Create a version of each template for you

Carefully name each template page's artboard in Sketch as follows in order to help the instructor find and review them in InVision:

```txt
TEMPLATE n - Name - Device
```

Replace `n` with a number, such as `1` for your first template, `2` for your second template, etc. Replace `Name` with a name for the template such as `Home` or `Content page`. Replace `Device` with the device size for which the comp is designed such as `1200` or `760` or otherwise.

You should have at least 4 new artboards: 2 page templates designed for at least 2 device sizes (smartphone and tablet or larger).

Sync these new artboards to InVision. You do not need to set up hotspots in these new comps, but do ensure you've named them as indicated above. 

Then move into Codio and set up markup for these same template pages in preparation for styling them in the next deliverable. Place them in the provided `temp` folder. We'll configure WordPress in a future deliverable, so use the provided "Preview Temp Folder" command to view your files or browse to them directly.

Take a snapshot in order to save your work and consider this deliverable complete.

### Deliverable C: Template Styles

Make any changes suggested by your professor to your design comps and synchronize with InVision. 

Then build out your templates by adding CSS to your markup in the `temp` folder. Focus on just one responsive size for this deliverable.

Take a snapshot in Codio to capture your work to this point.

### Deliverable D: Theming, Part 1

Set up a WordPress site in Codio and implement your site's content and structure there as well using Pages, Widgets and other features as needed.

Set up a custom theme in WordPress by converting your `temp` files using the provided instructions.

Take a snapshot in Podio to capture your work to this point.

### Deliverable E: Theming, Part 2

Finish your theme in WordPress and finalize your content. Ensure all your pages are set up and styled intentionally and that the site works smoothly as a responsive site.

Take a snapshot in Podio to capture your work to this point.

### Final Submission

Make any remaining updates to your site.

Take a snapshot in Podio to capture your final work.