---
layout: project
title:  "Mini-project 5"
---
### Overview

In this project you will use WordPress to create a small e-commerce website.

* You must redesign an existing site so as to work with actual products and prices.
* You should not work with a client due to timing and other restrictions. We will only simulate the e-commerce nature and setup and stop shy of connecting to an actual billing application.

More details to come.

### Deliverable A: Wireframe prototype and Style Tiles

Use Sketch to quickly assemble a loose, grey-box prototype of your website. Use actual content where possible. 

Synchronize with an InVision project and ensure the professor is a collaborator in the project.

Use the InVision Boards feature to establish some type, color, and imagery ideas in lieu of a style tile submission. Ensure your professor has access to review and comment on this as well.

Submit the corresponding Moodle assignment to indicate you're ready for review.

### Deliverable B: Content Collection and WordPress Setup

Work to collect all the product details and images you need in order to create a representative prototype of the site.

Set up a WordPress site in Codio and begin to implement your site's content and structure there as well. Install the necessary e-commerce plugin and set up sample products and categories.

Submit the corresponding assignment in Moodle to indicate you're ready for review.

### Deliverable C: Design Comps and Content Population

Create design comps of the site using Sketch. Implement a functional prototype in InVision.

Continue to implement your e-commerce products and other site pages in WordPress.

Submit the corresponding assignment in Moodle to indicate you're ready for review.

### Deliverable D: Revision and Theme Setup

Make any changes suggested by your professor to your design comps and synchronize with InVision. 

Finish setting up content for your site and configuring the navigation in WordPress.

Set up a custom theme in WordPress and begin to lay in content styles.

Take a snapshot in Codio to capture your work to this point.

### Deliverable E: Theming, Part 1

Finish content styles and begin layout styles. Modify theme files and work with your professor for assistance.

Take a snapshot in Codio to capture your work to this point.

### Deliverable F: Theming, Part 2

Finish your theme in WordPress and finalize your content.

Take a snapshot in Codio to capture your work to this point.

### Final Submission

Make any remaining updates to your site.

Take a snapshot in Codio to capture your final work.